ladies and gentlemen please welcome
group manager dot Mac face engineering
Scott writer hi everybody good to see
you on this last session on Wednesday so
I was actually kind of preparing for our
session you have today and I realized
that I am the only thing standing
between you and dinner so I figured what
i would do is in that interest is I
would just strip all the white space for
my commentary so what we're gonna do is
we actually have the session actually
probably double or triple rate so we can
actually always face out there so you
really really quickly then you can get
it out and go and go and go and go and
go okay No thank you very much we'll be
here all night so as I said my name is
Scott Ryder I manage the infrastructure
group within Mac we're responsible for
kind of all those back-end servers that
make things go we don't let us near
pixels which is probably a good thing
since none of us can draw so agenda
where we going to talk about today we're
going to talk about very basically what
is that max from a developer's
perspective what does it offer you why
should you consider integrating your
application with it and what is it kind
of fundamentally all about we're then
going to talk about click hello there we
go some new features in Tiger
specifically if you've installed the
tiger DVD that you got if you look on
the dot mac preferences pane you'll
notice as a new tab on the very end
called samain and it's not very well
explained what that is so I actually get
to do a feature announcement and about
what it is that that tab is all about
and what it does for you and we're going
to touch very briefly on the new
synchronization services in tiger and
what that does and what it means to dot
Mac and what it means to your app then
after that we're going to talk about how
you can get all the exact same
integration that you've seen in Mac OS
10 and our I applications over the past
couple years in your app basically what
we've done is we've listened to our
developers and today we're announcing
the new dot Mac kit the dot map kit is a
high-level Coco wrapper around all the
dot Mac services that you would need to
kind of enable a next generation of
features for your application the key is
you can do all of this without network
programming there's no asynchronous you
don't have to deal with run Luke's
there's no threading issues it's a very
simple API for you to use and it just
moves your application forward and gives
you a whole new set of features again
this is at no cost to you there's no
charge for running the thousands of
servers that we run there's no charge to
you for using the kit it's just
something that's available to you and
again and I'll hit this several times
dot Mac is open standards-based that
hasn't changed we're not in venturing
custom binary protocols we're not trying
to push some new standard deviation that
we've come up with these are entirely
using the same webdav the same XML the
same HTTP that we've been using for a
long time what we're simply doing is
lifting the bar of it so you don't have
to do that work so what we hope you'll
learn specifically is a brief overview
of how to integrate the dot Mac domain
with your application what it means to
you and how to use the rendezvous api's
the touches on tigers and
synchronization services in dot max the
new dot Mac kit specifically what it is
when you should use it when you should
not use it and some good call style and
of course lots and lots of code samples
ultimately what we want you to get is a
little bit mac then we want you to kind
of help bridge that worked out for the
users between their local world and the
online world that's what the kit really
enables it lets you build features that
go seamlessly to the server and back
again they let two clients work together
it just makes data flow seamlessly for
our customers and yours so got Mac
overview of developers what did max look
like from a developer's perspective so
first and foremost it gave you the
ability to create a new category of
features first and dot Mac offers a
universal namespace this is you know
we're at so i think somewhere around
500,000 paying accounts or over 500,000
paying accounts that all have names in
one space when the new user comes to us
we give them a name there's no
collisions we don't recycle the
namespace so once a customer gets a name
it never goes away it's there's forever
and there's a lot of things that your
app can do with this if you think about
you know a good example who does this
today I chat those dot Mac names that
you get are perfectly valid through
ichat they're free
you don't have to be a paying account
you don't have to be in any particular
state as long as you have the credential
and you have the password you're good to
go with ichat we're good with the dot
Matt kit we're giving you the same
ability to build I chat like services
that use those IDs use those credentials
we all with paid memberships though
there's a whole bunch of services that
we provide one of them is is always on
store-and-forward the ability to kind of
do if you think of what ical does with
its published and subscribe for calendar
data you can publish a calendar out
there 12 a thousand people can then
download and subscribe to that calendar
all the updates flow through the server
it you can do shared meta you imagine if
you want to have a work flow going and
you want to put up you know this is the
state of the project you want to have X
number of people look at that particular
project state and of course ultimately
just like you see in iPhoto we offer the
simplest direct to web that's available
for customers customers don't have to
deal with server URLs they don't have to
deal with credentials facing because
it's all built into the OS with a kit
you can leverage that directly in your
application and truly provide one button
publish ultimately this will help you
stand out in your market this is
something that you cannot do on any
other platform that other OS doesn't
offer this even in the cow form it's not
something that they have done you've not
integrated the credential plexus with
the system in a totally open standard
way so dot Mac from a developer's
perspective this is actually something
that's been part of the service way back
when it started like five years ago as
vie tools we fundamentally designed this
to work with desktop applications as
well as online applications if you look
in your idisk you'll see something
called the library folder it's just like
the library folder and your local hard
drive but it has a couple neat
attributes one of them is its protected
users can't accidentally go into the
folder and mess up data they can't
delete files they can't overwrite files
so you can keep you know application
state or some important files in this
location and they can't be accidentally
deleted by users and we'll talk a little
bit more about the library folder later
it's designed fundamentally for a single
app multi machine use you can imagine
your software is running in one or two
or three or four of the users Max and
you want to have a place for all those
apps to court
each other to keep data that they want
to pass to each other that's what you
can use the library folder and I just to
do it's a great place to put that meta
and then read it out in multiple places
and put it back and can keep some really
interesting coordination pieces there we
do this with our own applications of the
dot Mac layers another section of
folders on the idisk are the Public
Insight folders these are kind of your
distribution points there a place that
you can get public data out to users two
ways one is if you want to do with the
web browser you know with the homepage
mac com services anything in that site
folder can be out can be viewed from the
web there's no credentialing there's no
extra headaches required or if they want
you can put things in the public folder
and use I descamps to go into that URL
and you can password-protect that and
you can start adding some access control
the key is you can mix and match
whatever is the appropriate model for
what your application wants to achieve
from both of simplicity from a web
access for me needs of use and from a
security perspective you can put some
data in one place some data in the other
place it doesn't really matter we'll get
a little bit more into this so what
ultimately could you really do by
integrating mac with your application
well again as I mentioned earlier you
can do publish and subscribe kind of
like ical does imagine the ability you
know one of my favorites auditors is the
Hydra client the ability to do
rendezvous based HTML or group editing
of a text document now as if you put
that document on the idis for
store-and-forward now you don't need all
the clients to be online at once
everybody can publish it ready can edit
the locking we provide mechanisms for
viewing with all that concurrency and
it's all pretty simple another thing you
could do is you could do obviously an
application data store wouldn't it be
nice if the user installs your
application and then something
horrendous happens to their machine and
they have to install it again and you
didn't have to ask them all the same
questions as they've already answered if
you want to keep track of how many you
know where your application get all that
meta here's a place you can put it put
the meta on that I disk the next time
some calamitous thing happens and the
user have to reinstall your app or wants
to install it on another computer you
have a place to get all that meta back
again without having to re query them
you can do some lightweight
collaboration again we offer that single
namespace so if you want to keep track
of who's publishing something you want
to
to identify a user you want to do some
meta flow or met a workflow kind of
storage maybe you pass the information
computer to computer but you keep this
state of the workflow on the idisk where
anybody can get at it so they can see
and you have a nice unified namespace it
usually comes at least with an ichat ID
and probably even with an email address
so if they're paying members and of
course distribution you can do some
really seamless client to server
blending when you start bringing the dot
Mac domain technology in together with
the dot Mac technology for the offline
access so of course identity as i
mentioned that single namespace gives
you a lot of things again think of what
i shat does its i want to really stress
it's not required for a fee to get an
identity a user comes to our website
it's also form that identity is theirs
for eternity they say you know we hope
that they choose to pay for the services
that can go with it but it's not
required and of course back up an
archival lots of great places and I just
to keep you know data that's important
to users are met it is important to your
app and ultimately there's a lot more
you can do because as I said earlier and
I will say again dot Mac is totally open
standards-based so that means this is
why I've been talking back to mac it
doesn't have to be Mac to Mack it can be
Mac to windows it can be windows to
windows it can be windows to linux the
key thing is by building open standards
at the core we enable you to embrace and
go forward on to other platforms without
having to worry about things breaking we
follow the same rfcs without
modification so specifically what is
this offer your app at no cost remember
all this is free to use the developer to
integrate we offer you access to over
one half million paying customers these
are some of apple's best customers or
some of your best customers and what we
find is that when they use services are
integrated they tend to really stick
with those applications it makes your
applications sticky and it makes it a
light for users to use because they
really enjoy the experience they get
when they go online and they go offline
and their data survives and all the
things that oh you can do that and it
just happens we offer all the account
management password reset password
management security questions all those
things is all managed for you we offer
very very scalable sir
services for example I guess Cologne
handle seven terabytes of data down
every single week we have a half a
terabyte a day to come up every single
week we have over a gigabit and a half
of bandwidth that we use for the service
and as we get more users we always add
more capacity all these systems are
supported and monitored twenty-four
seven there's a bunch of very dedicated
folks at Mac that have a job that I
frankly could never force myself to do
which is holding the pager of doom the
thing goes off at nine o'clock in the
night it goes off at one o'clock in the
morning and if the service is down these
guys will go into the office that they
have to get it back up again very very
dedicated folks and again all open
standards-based so from an architecture
this is what you would see through the
look kind of look at dot Mac at the
center of the whole thing sits idisk and
we'll talk a bit more about this or on
the sides we have to kind of key
functions that you would need one is
account management this is the
credentialing the password resetting all
that management pieces on the other side
and connected through it we have kind of
integration services these are the
things that let external things like
your applications and our own
applications tie into those other
services and extensible and controllable
way again xmlrpc is the core of this so
if you think it would I sink or I photo
or iMovie or ical or own backup all
these applications use these core
services on top of them of course we
also have our own web services or our
own applications that run web objects
that the clicker is once again decided
it's done there we go that take that and
emit that data through HTML so whether
you're coming in kind of from the bottom
directly to the metal if you will or if
you're coming out the top with a nice
pretty web interface it's all sitting
atop the same infrastructure the
application servers are using the same
protocols in the same interfaces that
you as a developer have access to I just
gives the court all data lives on idisk
we support web dev level 2 and as web
dev specifications move forward through
time we're always looking at adding more
being at the center means that our own
servers use the web dev protocol to
access data
so this is not something that you know
we're telling you to do and we do
something completely different we use
the same protocols the same semantics
and then a bit about standard formats
the internet you know push this forward
and I really want to drive it even
further by keeping images in JPEG or
keeping text in text by keeping things
in a standard format that means it's
really easy for it to flow from one
service to another if you're an
application and you deal with pictures
for example so you're doing a webcam
kind of app by uploading those pictures
in JPEG that means they're automatically
accessible to I cards or automatically
accessible to home page you don't have
to do any extra work so you know let's
open standard formats that we all know
and love they're just a really good
thing when you start thinking about
sharing things across services there's
some special behaviors that I just gives
you library is again as I said it can be
read by all anybody any application can
read the contents of library but it can
only be written by a select few and
we'll talk about that backup is reserved
the backup folders for the use of our
backup application if you have you want
to do backups you can do them in library
you can do them in other places in the
idisk it depends on the kind of data you
want to backup and some objects
depending on where they are and we'll go
a little bit deeper can be read without
members credentials so be careful where
you put things and we'll talk about that
but it is key to stress there is
absolutely no situation where users
idisk the contents on that disk can be
listed without credentials you may be
able to get the object if you know it
exists but you ask though we can't find
out what objects exist without the
owner's credential so the two roads to
Rome as I said there are two ways into
idisk one way is with web dev you zydus
mass comm and you can go through these
particular path member credentials
required to do this read you can read
anything in the folder structure and
those special folders i mentioned backup
library and software for example you
cannot necessarily write things in to
library you can the other ones you can't
the other choice is you can come in via
homepage mac com and homepage accesses
those folders so the key thing is
objects are files that you place in
movies or pictures or music or sites can
be read without credential they can't be
written without it they can't be lifted
without it but they can be read without
it and the way you would do that is
would simply say homepage mac com /
member name put a dot at the beginning
so like dot pictures dot music and you
would be able to get into the contents
of those particular folders why web tab
well first and foremost web dev is
nothing more than a set of extensions on
HTTP if you want to move things around
the internet you want to do that with
HTTP it is the fastest most scalable
protocol its most gateway to the most
proxy is far and above the most
supported it's just the easiest way to
do things it offers very rich object
management all the uploads downloads as
even versioning extensions to web dev
it's a very active community if you look
at kind of the open source or i/o
protocol today HTTP and webdav are the
only two that are really still evolving
actively and still changing over time
web dev has for example I think four or
five specs will even out for comments
and two or three that just actually came
back into being full standards and of
course it's fully cross-platform support
mac OS has had a webdav file system
since 10-0 windows and linux to both
have web dev file systems for quite some
time now so it's very well supported and
this is why we've been using it for
three years something we know we do 60
million webdav transactions per week and
that number is just going up and it's
the only thing you can scale easily I
should point out we do 60 million web
dev transactions with 24 servers that's
the beauty of web dev it's a very
scalable protocol it's our second most
popular service so a little bit an open
standard they're absolutely central to
our philosophy everything we do we want
to do it with open standards the key is
we look for standards that are meet all
these criteria they're stable they're
secure their broadly accepted and they
really offer something different for the
user when we find a standard that meets
all of those that's when we start
looking at adopting it and obviously we
use things from both of those bodies
today many flavors of HTTP and dad's
obviously many male things and even
xmlrpc and for tiger we're adding some
new stuff with DNS and we'll talk about
that so what is the dot Mac domain what
is that little domain tab you see in
those feeds well first and foremost it
offers us something that our users when
asking
for for a long time brand-new and tiger
we're going to give every member at
least one zone so they will have a zone
on the Internet is permanently it is
theirs as long as they have a paying
subscription they can publish things
into it the note zone will be there
member name so for example my name is
Scott so I'm Scott members mass comm and
when I want to find my computers I can
publish those machines into there so I
can have a work imac or i can have home
g5 all built into the same zone
regardless of what IP that they have and
this is built entirely on dns and dns
update this is not a custom hacked
protocol that we come up with we've
taken the existing industry standard
protocol to make this work now that's
that's kind of cool but let's bring
rendezvous into the picture when you
bring rendezvous into the picture what
we're actually going to do is we're
going to kind of make the world's e dot
local we're going to kind of hide the
internet nature of things and so when
you do a service browse on one computer
you will see all the other users
computers rather than the local link or
not so if you want to imagine this is
kind of diagram with the internet middle
what we do is we kind of make that sort
of fade out you could click there we go
fade out and your applications will sit
on top of that so when you're running
your app you'll come up on a powerbook
the user could be sitting in a coffee
shop it will see the home g5 is if they
were plugged into the same network link
and all the mat and spanning and all
that in between them all handled
automatically all handled invisibly
so again as I said this is fully
integrated with rendezvous so what do
you get for free basically when you log
into a machine remember there's that dot
Mac member account right in the
preferences panel all the other apps for
that account will be seen together the
key is what we're doing is we're
changing that default meaning of public
or the dog farts the meaning of the
default browse that you saw in the
sample code for rendezvous so if I bring
that up originally it said past the
empty string and it said for the empty
string we're going to simply insert
insert dot local in tiger with got Mac
domain what we're going to do is we're
going to insert local and that members
own like Scott members max calm so this
is the code sample that existed when
rendezvous was first introduced no
change exactly the same thing but by
passing that empty string when this
comes back you'll see that local printer
sitting on the local Ethernet connection
and you'll see the work g5 you'll be
returned you and a look like it's one
link this requires absolutely no effort
you're done it just works but what if
you want to go beyond the base behavior
what if you want to actually do more for
example you drive an application you
want to do some of those collaboration
stuff remember I mentioned those IDs get
kind of interesting because those are
the keys to find other user services you
can use their taught Mac member name to
compute the domain that their services
would live in and then pass it into
rendezvous so let's take that same code
sample let's make a couple change to
changes first thing we'll do is we'll
have some object that gives me a name of
someone else I'm supposed to browse so
in this case we'll say I'm supposed to
browse writer my last name so comes back
members names of browsers writer so we
simply compute a domain writer members
mac.com and we pass that into rendezvous
we will now see the services that writer
writer has published into his life is a
Mac domain so if you imagine you can go
through the address book you can find
buddies you can present any kind of you
know person picker you why once you have
their mac ID we have the only key you
need and with two lines of code change
you can browse and look for your
application services running on that
member subnet and you don't care where
those computers are as far as all your
connections and all your other hooks
into the rendezvous API there exactly
they always have been so a little bit on
security publishing is restricted
obviously I know you can't publish
something into my domain and I can't
publish something into your domain it's
restricted to the local members own and
if you basically if you call the
rendezvous API all the right things are
done for you automatically you don't
have to do anything if the user has
turned on the dot mac domain that
service will be automatically published
into their zone browsing is notice
doesn't require authentication if I know
your member name I can browse your
services so this is life as it has
always been willing to do absolutely
critical that if your service is vending
secure information or to vending
personal information it's up to you to
protect it put some kind of password off
put some challenge-response whatever is
appropriate for your app it's your
responsibility as it always has been to
protect the content master domain will
help people find each other but it's up
to you the developers for whatever is
the right instance for your application
to protect the data and as always if you
really want to stand the local link just
pass that local you don't have to do
anything else and you know I encourage
you very strongly go to test number 50 4
1030 Stewart Cheshire has all the great
details and exactly how this works open
standards DNS update and T cyghfer
authentication so even the off that
we're using to do the publish is still
open standards-based so if you really
wanted to you could do a DNS update
packet from a linux machine and you
could probably get it into work open
standards very very important so think
services all i want to say on this is i
think is growing up i think is becoming
an you know absolutely killer
synchronization infrastructure for you
to use in your applications dot mac is
still the court so just like it was and
i think one where your data went through
I disc in the sync services and Tiger it
goes through your idisk it lives in the
library folder but there's been a couple
changes the protocol is now pure web dev
so we're even using the same piece to
know web dev to move that
synchronization data up and down what we
do it obviously over SSL
to protect the data the new syncservices
is your Steve Cybertron say you can
define your own data classes you have
much greater flexibility and performance
of how sinks are triggered because the
web dev protocol is much thinner than we
used to be and this is actually built
with the dot Mac kit so we're actually
using our own kit in the OS so again
same protocols the same technologies the
same frameworks that are available to us
that we're using to build this stuff is
available to you now I want to give you
one quick slide on how to use the tiger
seed that you got because as you said
Tigers still cub he's still growing up
and so there's some things as special
steps you do in order to use Mac domain
and in order to use of sync services and
Tiger just for the seat this goes away
when the product ship we've built a
little side environment this is a you
know environment where you know we run
the kind of special next generation
servers that we're developing but the
key thing is this is an active
development environment we were working
on this too is this tiger move forward
we're working on this environment at the
same time so you know well there's a
thing that one of the engineers and team
came up with you'll laugh you'll cry
you'll wonder where your data went data
durability is not guaranteed in this
environment things will come up and
we'll go down so don't use accounts with
data that you care about create a trial
account and play with that to use this
account there's one URL you can go to
this is in your seed it's in the release
notes it's even in the UI and it has all
the instructions on how to get things
set up and of course this has a limited
life when tiger comes along this whole
environment will just kind of think back
into the sand from which it came and
everything will be work fine in the
production normal environment however I
do want to mention one thing in that web
page you will see a button that says
reset this account what the reset this
account does is if something horrendous
happens and you'll somehow sync services
and it's gets a little wedge sideways so
the dns service gets a little wedge
sideways go push the reset button what
that does is it just blows away the
store that's in that separate
environment it won't touch the main mac
it only resets the little side
environment so it resets that special
synchronization store that's really what
it's going to reset for you so if you
get really stuck to hit reset you can
kind of start over
but remember it does delete everything
and the web page makes that I think very
very clear so everything we've talked
about up until this point is tiger now I
want to talk about the dot Mac kit and
remember the dot Matt kit runs on jaguar
Panther and tiger I think I've now you
said it one dot Mac is open
standards-based but there's still a
relatively complex amount of network
programming that have to go on in order
to use this you know run loops thread CF
network CF xml web services framework
there's a lot of pieces you have to do
to weld us all together so why do all
that if you don't have to what we've
done with a dot matt kit is we built all
that on the same infrastructure so we're
using CF network we're using CF XML
we're doing all kind of the heavy
lifting under the covers for you on the
on our own even all the way down to like
automatic proxy configuration if the
system is configured for proxies the kit
will automatically configure itself or
proxies literally it's intended to be
one call and it Jeff works it's a simple
fashion style Coco API we fully support
and now I'm going to get on another
horse I mean fully support asynchronous
and synchronous operation any
transaction that you can do
synchronously you can do asynchronously
there's no difference in API another key
point this is an embedded framework this
is not something that comes on the US
this is something that you can deliver
in your application package this has a
couple advantages for you one is we move
the kit forward in time you don't have
to wait for a less reps you can deliver
the kit with your application if you
know that the kid this version of the
kit is qualified for the version of the
u.s. you want to ship you can deliver
that kit yourself regardless of how the
OS changes through time now of course it
would really be you know be bad if that
kit was well let's just say it's five
megabytes don't worry about it so we
worked very very hard the kit is 500k
half a meg you know if anybody remembers
floppies that would actually sit on one
so it this is a very lightweight thing
because
we're leveraging the mac OS
infrastructure a lot of the heavy
lifting pieces are already on the system
and as I said Jaguar better 10 to 6 and
above and will support them all and it's
free compania you don't have to pay for
it and as I said again we use this today
this is something that's in our app
servers it's in the new sync services
and tiger and this time go forward will
continue to use it in other things the
same code so when should you use this
when is a good candidate for the kit
well if you're doing you know I'll use
text edit is an example here through
your users are thinking about what
they're doing the terms of file their
opening file they're saving files it's a
kind of a file centric experience you
don't need to do anything there's no
special behaviors required right they
just want to let them save there's a lot
of work we put in over the years to make
I just look and feel just like a hard
drive to the users even you know the new
local idisk helps make that a brother
performant experience for them so don't
use the kit for these use the open save
panels and you're just done there's no
extra work this is is as it has been but
what we've had over the years we've had
many developers conduits and say look
I'm not doing smiles here you know I'm
doing an HTML publishing application or
we're doing a workflow application or I
want to write a really cool webcam I
don't want to have users keep saving
stuff and their ideas to be mounted on
the desktop and things like that that's
not what I need you know I'm doing
relatively frequent and basically
invisible background applications that's
what the kid is for the kid is you know
if you want to think of it the kid is
for working with objects and the
existing systems are working with file
and a good example this is of course I
photo you know when you click on the
home page button where you click on the
dot Mac slides button you're not really
thinking of your saving files to the i
just know technically you are uploading
JPEGs to the idisk but from the users
perspective it's invisible it's just
kind of woven in this is what the kit is
intended to do so exactly what is the
kit well it's three classes the first
one is VM member account vm member
account is designed to kind of
encapsulate everything about the Adamic
members account it pulls the information
from the system it gives you methods to
validate it it gives you methods to
check if it's expiring it gives you
methods to even upgrade it or create a
new one if you wish
it's basically everything you need to
manage member accounts he's kind of the
key you always start with a DM member
account and then you start doing other
things like you get a session to a
particular service so in the one point 0
of the kit the first session we have is
I discussions in I just sessions manage
everything that is specific about the
web dev protocol all the state all the
issues about dealing with prop finds and
collections HTML parsing on parsing and
locking and railings and redirection all
done simple Coco API and of course
transaction DN member account creates
transactions the session creates
transactions and as we add other types
to the kit they will create transactions
the transaction is kind of the
encapsulator for all the work he does it
the member account authorizes it so to
speak the sessions test it up and the
transaction actually does it this is the
one point 0 of the kit so let's go a
little deeper let's go a little deeper
into DM member account what does he do
as I said he encapsulates all the pieces
about the user's account he gets the
credentials from the LF you can provide
them yourself if you want but in most
cases you just want to automatically
pull them from the US he provides access
to key account state information you
know when is this account going to
expire what are the services that this
account has are the credentials that I
have any good are they valid so for
example in the if you were to write kind
of your own ichat you just want to use
the credentials you would hand them into
the member account and you've asked the
member account are these credentials
valid and it would need to tell you
there invalid credentials meaning the
name or the password is wrong we won't
tell you which just one of the other is
wrong or they are valid and then you can
start asking ok we'll find is this
account expired are there any services
you can go deeper if you need those
things and of course it has facilities
for upgrading or generating new account
and I should point out he handles all
the international issues for you so if
you're running the user is a Japanese
user you simply call upgrade they'll go
into the upgrade path with japanese text
if they're an english user they'll go in
the upgrade path with english text one
call to you you don't have to worry
about managing any of the other
complexities we'll do it all and as I
said sink or
a sink for everything he does and he's
the key he's how you get session so
let's look at encode as i said vm member
account represents your application to
mac so the first thing we ask you do is
get a unique ID the dub dub dr site has
had a registration service for
developers to register unique ID through
their applications for many years why is
this important well if you actually look
at the dot mac servers we talked to
something like 300 to 400 unique user
agent type client things every day just
on the idisk service alone it's very
hard to provide a guaranteed quality of
service because we don't know
necessarily square are we talking to a
linux machine are we talking to you know
some users it's just banging up from the
outside we want to make sure that we
give your apps kind of the best
experience we can and it only works if
we know that it's your app that's
calling in to us so by giving us this
unique ID and we actually require you to
do this it'll make it really easy for us
to make sure that your apps going to get
you know somewhat a little higher
priority access if you will for key
things when there's a contention so you
need to get this ID and pass it in the
constructors either whether you're
getting an auto released instance or
you're getting kind of your own managed
instance and I just put those spaces
those dashes in there this is where you
get that four-letter creatorcode well
the URL you need is in the docs for the
kit it's in the sample code for the kid
there's one optional parameter if you're
going to be doing something on the idisk
that's going to be represented to the
user or do you expect to use it or kind
of go browsing through and it'd be
appropriate to see the name of your
application you might want to set the
human readable name and this can be any
Unicode string you know we'd recommend
for right now keep it Japanese or
English but you can pass in whatever
their appropriate human readable name
for your app is this is particularly
important when we are dealing with some
future functionality coming in the
library folder and we'll talk about that
so get an account reference so we'll
simply use the you know pull it
automatically from the system and we'll
use a kind of a fictitious creatorcode
for this next step validate those
credentials make sure that they're good
for one call call back here and if it's
not right and obviously credentials are
probably invalid and you can tease it
apart to figure out why they're not
valid
once you've got the credentials let's
say we're going to use the idisk service
make sure the service exists you can
simply use the account so hey give me a
list of all the services that this user
has will give you back an array and you
can look through the array we provide
constant for all the things you'd expect
like sync service or email service or
idisk service or web hosting service and
we provide constants for these so you
can simply check so in this case hey
he's got the idisk service we're ready
to go or oh maybe this is an email only
account or maybe this is an expired
account once you've done this we can
talk about getting a session and I
should point out when you go through
this hold on to that member account
object because you remember you only
have to do this one once it's done
you're done you don't need to mess with
it ever again so hold on to that number
account object and then you can reuse it
again and again to create sessions what
is the session he's designed to kind of
be a one-to-one relationship for this
member i want this members idisk service
or for this member i want this members
ex-service the one the run relationship
so once you create a service he's bound
to the member from what you created him
for multiple idisk for mobile members
use multiple members create multiple DM
member accounts and do the checks on
them he offers a full feature set upload
download delete make directory move
coffee you name it it's in there and he
initiates transactions each operation
whether it's done by a member account or
by nida session returns a transaction
will get a little bit deeper on that the
only difference is when the kid is
synchronous the transaction is
automatically complete and when it's
asynchronous it may or may not be
complete so as I said you needed DM
member account to create so in this case
will create a DM member account the
default state is synchronous arm sorry
is asynchronous so we're going to flip
it over to sync very very important
safety tip if you're expecting thing is
to be synchronous remember to set it to
synchronous otherwise you'll be calling
into transactions as you get back and
they may not have even started yet and
if you're looking for data will be kind
of weird if you ask for it and its
transaction hasn't even started we'll
just give you back nothing we don't have
anything yet we won't give you back an
error because it has an error it just
hasn't started so make sure if you're
expecting things to be synchronous every
single instance the dot Mac kit
always default to async put it to sink
if you expect it to be sick so set the
state to sink and that start firing
transactions now dealing with errors
remember the kit the session doesn't do
err the transactions do the transactions
are the guys that do all the work so if
you want to see how far our transaction
is progressing you want to see if it has
an error remember you're always going to
be asking the transaction for those
things not the session one more
important thing the key thing about I
discussion something we worked very hard
to do is you can flip the state between
a sink and sink randomly it's entirely
up to you so if you want to issue for
transactions asynchronously and then two
transactions synchronously and then for
more transactions asynchronously just
simply flip the state around the
in-flight transactions will not be
affected by those state changes so if
you kick the thing over into sync and
you have three a sinks running they'll
just keep running and when your sink is
done that those notifications will be
queued for you and be ready to pick up
when you're done with the synchronous
operation so the kit is very very good
about letting you change modes on the
fly you're not bound one mode you won't
screw up things that are in flight or
not so DM transaction he does all the
work he's the guy that moves the bits
around uploads them and downloads them
encapsulates all transaction details all
the state all the errors all the results
and he's created by both DM member
account and by DM idisk session so again
if you imagine those two services
sitting on the side one is wrapped by DM
Ida session one is wrap idea member
account they both create DM transaction
and he's responsible for all the
protocol specifics whether it's xmlrpc
over SSL or webdav V HTTP and you can
set delegates on him and he will call
you back so using a transaction some key
things you can do is you can using to
obviously determine progress you can ask
the transaction what's the content
length how much stuff do I have to move
and you can ask him how many bikes as I
move so far I should point out the kit
fully thread safe so you can do these
any time you want from a number of
threads that you want you can just kind
of bounce around it's entirely up to you
[Applause]
you want to see how the transaction is
doing kind of an asynchronous polling
model you can simply hate we know what's
your state and we provide you a whole
set of constants for onion oh not
started error de boarded successful all
those kinds of things and then to get
the result simple call the result
function and will give you the result
back pretty straightforward so kind of a
flow how to use the kit synchronously
step one get that DM member account step
to validate it step 3 create an idisk
session from its will pull the session
step 4 set it to think this is a
synchronous example so remember start a
sink you've got to set it to sink it'll
stay there until you set it back then
start pulling your transactions go get
the work done and when the transaction
is done you can go ahead and if it's not
an error pull the data object out of it
so very simple synchronous code sample
and I'm going to go very quickly for
these code because I'm running a little
short on time and i want to show you
that all the code that i'm showing your
parents in the slide is included in the
sample code that comes with the kit so
you know don't worry about paying too
much attention to it it's all there in
the kit sample code so we're going to go
ahead and get a DM member account right
from the system we're going to validate
the access to make sure this account the
credentials are good is there stored in
the system if it's not we're going to go
ahead and deal with that in this case
we'll set the mode to think because this
is a synchronous example and then we'll
get a session pull the sessions or go
start doing some work once we've got
that session we'll get a pass we're in
this case we're just going to pull a
picture you know from some name of image
that's hold in the pictures folder
created somewhere else and will fire a
synchronous transaction to go off and
get the data down get the data from this
path the minute because it's a
synchronous the minute this call
completes we know the transaction is
done it's either succeeded or it has
failed and so what we do instead of
having to deal with okay we'll check the
HTTP code now check to see the payload
is there if you're supposed to be a
payload Oh we'll blame it this was
supposed to have a payload a lot of
complexity we provide you a very simple
accessor its successful is successful
depending
what the transaction was trying to do is
have all the smarts to figure out cable
the right HTTP code for the right
transactions the right XML responses
it's all ads all dealt with for you so
they call it successful is successful
returns true then you know the thing
works you know the result will be there
what you expect so in this case you can
go ahead great it was successful I'm
going to copy that picture out and do it
in this image in its data and then I
will go ahead and create it in this
image from that data and then do
whatever it is I want to do and if not
it wasn't successful now you can start
teasing it apart whether a network error
where the credential bad whatever and
off you go so some notes maybe I've said
this one the kit defaults to async if
you need to use it synchronously set it
to synchronously but you can flip it
back and forth any time there's no
penalty it just means it's the very next
transaction you pull will follow the new
model bit about the result function we
worked very hard on this particularly
for Jaguar when you call result if
you're downloading a lot of data we will
give you back a memory mapped instance
of that data so this means if you have
an application you're running on a very
limited footprint machine downloading
five you know 100 megabyte JPEGs would
be a very bad thing you'd kill the
system performance because you're
pulling all those bits in what we
actually do is whenever you're
downloading an object we put it on a
temporary file in the file system and
then we return that object to you when
you asked for it so that means you can
download as many things as you want
asynchronously and you won't cause the
machines vm to go into swap nightmare
and then as long as you access the
objects carefully you will avail to
manage memory very cleanly all done with
an NS data there's no all done under
covers for you no extra work a little
bit about asking for results before the
transactions are done if the kits
running asynchronously if you ask the
results before it's complete we're going
to give you what we've got this could be
a good thing if it's your own format and
you can deserialize it a partial
download yourself but generally it's
probably a bad idea because you can get
into some strange things well what do
you mean I don't have this you can get
to some interesting bugs where sometimes
it works and sometimes it doesn't work
simply based on how far the transaction
is gone you should always check make
sure that you've got the whole thing to
simply check that you know content
lengths and bikes downloaded
so far to see if you've got everything
you need but you can do it if you want
and if you call you know call result
call result call result will simply give
you however many bites we've gotten up
until that point you can do progressive
downloads if you wish just be careful
and again use vm member account to
preflight recommend checking three
things valets the credentials make sure
the service you need exists and of
course it's really convenient for the
users to check to see if the account is
expire heat it's kind of bad if they go
through all the stuff and they're really
using your app and it's just great and
then they launched it the next day and
they get this message saying oh by the
way all the work you did yesterday you
can't get to it cuz your account just
expired so if the users account is
expiring you know two or three or ten
days it's probably a good thing to show
them some UI saying hey we notice your
accounts about to expire and then we
give you message all the methods you
would need to upgrade that account
automatically you make one call if they
say yes and we'll just do the work and
it's against you can do this lazily the
kit support they think you can just fire
these things off to forget about them
and they'll come back when they're done
so let's talk about async how to use it
it's almost exactly the same is sync
create a DM member account perform those
validations create a session now
register a delegate for this for the
idisk session pull come on clicker pull
some transactions
uh-huh here we go pull some transactions
the transactions will send messages to
their delegates a little bit about the
delegates another area that we worked
very hard on in the kit so you can set
and just like you can change the mode
from think async at any time you can
change the delegate for a session at any
time and it will affect the next
transaction that you pull so if you want
you can pull a transaction with a
delegated object a change it pull
another one object being pull another
one object see pull another one object d
so if you know you're doing a particular
category like you're doing it download
you want all those messages to go to one
controller you can set that delegate
then flip it around now you're doing an
upload and all those messages can go to
a different delicate the transaction
will handle all that automatically
something else that's very important the
kit does all of its work off of the main
UI thread so we have a state machine and
a little threading model internal with
some workers so that when you're using
the kit where they're using at
asynchronously or synchronously we won't
do our work on your threat so we won't
flow down your UI and we won't float on
your application and all those great
dual processor machines it just hums
away on the other processor just flying
so again no extra work by you and it
will call back onto your thread so if
you pull a transaction pull transaction
on threads for we're going to call back
on thread for you pull a transaction on
your main thread we're gonna call back
on your main thread so you don't have to
manage any of that state either the kit
will do all that for you and of course
the transactions where you get the data
objects so an asynchronous sample again
setup is exactly the same as it was
except this time we're not going to call
that is synchronous so we're going to
get imagine we got the DM member account
the same as we did before but now we're
going to set the delegate in the case
it's optional but it's usually a good
idea you can set the delegate up when we
talk a little bit about retaining right
now well i'll save that set the delegate
create some paths that holds the
information i want this case because
it's saying name image we did before by
our transaction and we go off and we get
the image then the delegate will run
along and they'll get message on the big
state changes so if you know everything
works you'll get
message back you know transaction
successful there was no error notice we
give you the transaction back this means
you don't even need to retain those
transactions will do that for you so you
can imagine if something in your code
style works this way you could fire
transaction in one particular you know
object and then it could the whole thing
can go away and then the delegate will
object will get called back and they can
get the payload out of the transaction
so you don't have to do the extra work
of holding the transactions and
rendezvous Inge the response with the
object that initiated it and keeping
track of all that it's all done for you
automatically under the hood you don't
have to hold on to anything will give
you back what you need to get back from
an error obviously we'll give you the
same thing back for errors and for
cancelled we'll give you back the same
thing if you take an asynchronous
transaction and cancel it remember if
you set a delegate on the synchronous
mode it's not going to call back because
it can't get synchronous each
transaction can have a different
delegate steps assess you set it on the
session the very next transaction that
you fire will message that delegate with
polling you can use it to make a very
responsive user interface you can
imagine set up a timer every second or
so just pull the pole the transaction
hey how many by to be moved so far and
when it's done you'll get a nice message
and it makes it real easy from a code
flow just to go ahead and great turn and
pull him out of the ue because he's all
done and go start dealing with the
object that he was trying to move now
hopefully that seems pretty
straightforward and pretty simple but we
want to make it even simpler so what I
want to offer you here is the one line
adoption how to use a dot map kit with
changing one line of code we offer in a
file manager replacement so there are
many really cool apps out there today to
kind of integrate with Mac and they did
it on their own they figured okay the
web dev file system I can mount the
volume and I can do this and I can do
that alone was that either days I've got
done it's like look you know so what
we're gonna let you do is if you're
using in a file manager take the
instance where you create the file
manager and replace it with that what we
do is DMI disc session will mirror or
kind of has you know categories if you
will it's exactly what it is of most of
the most popular in a file manager
methods if you change that one line in
your code odds are most
the file manager calls that you make
will now just go through the kit but
there's some details here this is a
lightweight replacement we certainly
don't implement every message that you
haven't in a file manager we implement
only the Select now the good news is
they're the ones you post Michael you
copy things up move things around delete
things read open those are all there it
is synchronous only it does not support
the async operations as a kit we're not
going to move this forward over time if
you want to deal with files that's what
the file manager and the whole web dev
file systems for but we know there's a
category of applications out there that
is kind of integrated with Mac early and
we want to help them move over to using
the kit very quickly this is intended as
a time to market tool you know if you
have places in your code we're doing
pub/sub using the file manager you can
very quickly kind of get in there and
use the kit and then over time go
through and actually implement the kit
and it's asynchronous modes and do all
the kind of the fancy stuff so it's a
time to market tool it's not an end
point and as I prolonged stress this is
it is as it is and it's not going to
change over time so as we do more
sessions and more cool services with the
kit you're not going to see them change
this particular option with that what
I'd like to do is invite Ryan parks up
who's a lead engineer and Ryan and I are
going to a very quick demo for you of
kind of some sample code that you get
with the kit thanks good we have we have
demo 16 so and I want to share a very
brief little story here this this sample
app implements kind of the basic things
you would expect to be able to see you
can look at account status pull from the
system you can do web uploads back up
it's kind of intended to be a cookbook
app code that you can crib very simple
and I wrote it so if it stinks I
apologize in fact you know more than
once I've had my team come into my
office and run out of my office
shrieking he's using the compiler again
run run for the hills so managers
shouldn't write code it scares engineers
but very simply he's intended the kits
designed to do the kind of basic things
you would need if you wanted to provide
say browsing the pictures folder you can
click you can get a list of all the
pictures that exist you can scroll down
you can find some pic notice if I turn
off the synchronous bit now you can see
the progress is reflect their thing here
if I click very quickly
I can get them well there we go you can
see I had two transactions and flight at
once so this is using the asynchronous
mode it's using examples of polling for
a response of view we the whole app that
you see here for doing you know web
uploads for publishing if you want to
put your publish an HTML page upload
demo page and when you're all done with
that you can click view it from launch
Safari and you can see the demo page you
know all the code to do all of this is
maybe 31 spread out through a couple
classes so it gets very very simple to
use and what Ryan's going to do now is
going to show you a little more
complicated example so you really want
to get any intimacy is exactly what the
kid is doing you can use this thanks yes
Scott jokes about his code writing
ability but he's actually very good
you've seen the sample we also have
another sample app that ships with the
kit it's called I just browser and as
you see is the default mode is
asynchronous just like the kit itself
and we can actually toggle between
asynchronous and synchronous if we
navigate through the software folder in
the directories all of the prop signs
are happening asynchronously that the
quota calculation is happening
asynchronously and we can just flip back
and forth and actually this is a good
apps to look at if you're interested in
learning more about using a session the
same session and flipping between a sink
and stinks because we're just using one
I just session instance in this app and
we just flip between the two modes
basically you just double click to
download in this app and if we do an
upload here you can see the polling the
UI progress but we get an error and even
though it had written a little bit up to
this I disc it deleted it properly at
the end and that delete is an example of
kind of a carefree async transaction
that was fired right when we learned
that the transaction failed we told the
callers that it had failed but filed
fired this delete immediately and we
didn't have to retain that damn
transaction we didn't have to do any
special handling it just happened on its
own basically once you fire diem trans
action if you're not interested in the
result you just want it to be a best
efforts attempt to correct whatever
problem there was you don't have to
worry about it anymore so this is a good
app to look at if you want to learn more
about basically what's available to you
if you open this side window you can see
the I just property available for the
various files and folders you see things
like content length content types
whether it's a collection or not and
there's a extended attributes that path
method which gives you all this data
that's pretty useful also as you click
around in this app and do various things
upload things you can see what's
happening in this log and basically get
an idea of what the differences are
between the async and the synchronous
call models so I encourage you to take a
look at the source here and appreciate
it because it really flexes all the
various modes you can use from polling
to delegate call back to straight
synchronous called okay thanks run
thanks very much again with the samples
for the kit we wanted to provide you
either a cookbook if you just want to
kind of crib the objects right out and
start using the code immediately in your
thing you could do that with a DM
samples or if you really want to get
into the intimacy's of exactly how the
kit works and what you can and can't do
you know and how easy it is we gave you
the full browser app as well and again
both the source for those is included
with the kit so I talked about the
library folder and the special behaviors
that it exhibits I want to kind of
double click a little bit on but I do
want to emphasize this behavior comes
with Tiger shipped this is not something
you have today everything I've talked
about with regards to the dot Mac kit
you know the Jaguar support using it the
browser apps all of that the kid is one
out this is not a developer preview this
is the freedom shipping instance we
encourage you use this in your apps
deploy this to your customers get it out
there but these these are little extra
functionality you're going to get when
Tiger ship so specifically what we're
going to let your application do is
create a folder inside of library
application support that it can use to
hold its own data but you must use the
name that you set with
that convenience application in or if
your application is called my grade app
with spaces then it you must set you
know my great app and you must create a
folder called myspace great space app
inside of there yes they have to match
and again this is simply to help the
user and organizing things and they want
to see which of their software
applications with the names they know
them by our storing things on their
ideas can using things on their I disk
but as I said early remember the library
folder and its contents are protected
this means that you are responsible for
this folder there's not a simple way for
the user to go in and delete its
contents so if you know you're putting
things here keeps one we'd recommend
keep them small and to make sure that
you give the user a way to delete them
or to clean them up if they don't want
them to live there anymore only your app
will be allowed to read and write so
other apps can't stop on this folder the
user can't accidentally stomp on the
folder so you know again why would you
do this in the first place this is a
great place to keep that small amounts
of state data you know multiple installs
of your app running on multiple machines
for the user and there you know using
the dot maximum they all know about each
other and you can do really cool
peer-to-peer stuff but you want to keep
a little extra state you can do that in
the library application folder in one
really cool example is you could write a
webcam thing for example that uses a dot
Mac domain and if it finds the two
machines directly then it goes straight
through and it does appear to peer
connection high speed but if you know
could always fall back and also do the
direct web publishing stuff using the
kit involve loading to idisk so good
place to keep state stuff and of course
as I said it's protected from accidental
modification you can't fax the user
can't accidentally screw it up so how do
you get it remember the kits not part of
the US this is an embedded framework
it's a 500k framework that you need to
deliver with your application it's part
of your application rapper real simple
go to developer apple com login with
your developer ID that they give you and
you in the downloads area starting today
or for somebody very close to today you
should see ad image that are called the
dot mac kit and you should be able to
download it there's some common life
common sense licensing that you need to
agree to when you use the kid this is
again it's nothing you would expect of
course I can encapsulate on the fly
the lawyers of expanded until like ten
pages but it's pretty simple stuff don't
build bad karma don't build applications
to do you know bad things this is not
part of the license it's not with the
kits intended for it's just you
shouldn't do it remember data cannot be
collected or used centrally again the
kit does not give you any way to access
the members password it's an important
you know privacy thing to point out you
know the DM member account and cap
slates all there's really no reason for
you to need it in a couple rare cases
where you may need to capture those
credentials you can pass them indirectly
but the kit won't give you access to the
password it will give you access to the
member name because obviously with Mac
domain there's a lot of reasons why
having that name would be useful but
don't send them to a central server
keeps them in your application you can
keep them in your preference file you
can keep some local em system just don't
send them back to some central marketing
database it's a kind of a violation of
just good karma from a privacy
perspective don't create you know don't
cause members to violate the Terms of
Service you know don't upload a gigabyte
and download a gigabyte and upload a gay
buy and download a gigabyte in the
background you know be be creative you
know do things carefully uploading and
downloading gigabytes is just not a good
thing to do for the user even the users
perspective use a creator code for each
app that you write so if you're a
company and you have two or three
software products and you want to use
the kit in all of them which is totally
great just make sure you use a unique
code for each one of those applications
that waves that you know again we can
make sure that we give them the best
experience download the latest release
from the website again as I said Jaguar
and hire 10 to six Panther tiger it's
our intent hopefully we're going to
support current shipping minus one but
when Tiger comes out is the shipping OS
we hope to stay with panther and tiger
and then whatever comes beyond tiger we
want to try to keep both of those out
there for you but again because this is
an embedded framework if you have a
version the kits at work for you go
ahead and deliver it you can deliver it
with your applications as long as it's
functional not part of us and getting it
includes all the sample projects and all
the sample code we've been talking about
up here and all the documentation for
the kit as well as obviously the kit
itself and it's available today or very
close to today we still have to get the
damage online but by tomorrow let's say
at the latest it'll be up there so
kind of to wrap up the formula is with
mackerel if Tiger and dot Mac domain and
the new sink services and all the dot
Mac integration that's been available in
the US for a long time there's a lot of
really cool things that the u.s. does
when you add that to your application
using you know core data or core video
and all the other excessive things
there's some really really cool cool
products out there now we're giving you
the same tools and the same capabilities
that we've had with an apple and I app
and I sink and imovie and iphoto and all
those places to actually have things
that equal you know that then that
ability to have of users local world
their local high life bridge into their
online life and back and forth and
seamlessly you can you know you want to
do a director web one button push we
have all the tools here you need to do
it synchronously or asynchronously you
know the kinds of apps you can create
here just it's staggering kind of thing
we've had a lot of ideas kicking stuff
around but ultimately you can build
something you can't build on any other
OS and you can do so very very simply
using one kit so who to contact
obviously wa is a great place within dub
dub dr david conway who's our marketing
guru here is under good place if you
have very specific business things you
want to do with a kit or you want to do
a thought Mac David's a great place to
go there's two other URLs email
addresses i want to give you I do want
to caveat these are both kind of you'll
be black hole messages go in there red
but we don't necessarily going to
respond because of the volume of email
that we expect one is not Matt Kindt
feedback this is not for bugs so
obviously you have radar and all that
infrastructure for implementing issuing
bug reports this is hey you know the API
is great but we really like to see the
API for this particular function go this
way or you know I could really use this
method on the DM transaction so for
getting it so kind of direct API feature
requests for the kit use Mac kit
feedback for Don sorry got Mac kit that
max calm and just like consumers in the
dot Mac website there's a feedback
section where consumers can ask for
consumer features got mag then is for
developers ask for developer features so
if you notice the kit is not about you
know taking existing
stuff and wrapping ways interfacing to
it the kits about giving you new things
that you can do when you have servers in
the skies that are always on always
monitored and offer be alive support
with unified account so if there's some
really cool things you'd like to see
from you know dot Mac from a developer's
perspective or you know kind of under
the covers it's not necessarily HTML or
a browser go ahead and kick those into
dot max Renn and we'll try to get them
to the kit with that having been said
I'd like to invite if I can click yeah
like tax advice the dot Mac
infrastructure team up here on stage and
we can take your questions
[Applause]